Kabuli Pulao

How to Make this Recipe
Step 1: Cook the Onion
Sauteed onions in a pan with a wooden utensil
Heat 2 tbsp ghee or olive oil in a deep, heavy-based saucepan. 

Add the onion and fry over medium heat for 15 minutes, or until translucent and golden brown. Remove and set aside. 

Step 2: Cook the Lamb
Raw lamb in a pan with ghee

Add the lamb to the pan with the remaining ghee and fry over high heat until browned, stirring often. Sprinkle with spices and 1 tsp of salt. 

Stir over heat for 1 minute, add 1 ½ cups water, then return onion to the pan. Cover and simmer for one hour. 

Cooked lamb in a pan with ghee
Step 3: Prep the Toppings
While the meat is cooking, add ¼ cup ghee to a frying pan and lightly brown/toast sliced almonds. Remove from pan, leaving ghee behind. 

Almonds toasting in a pan with ghee

Add carrots to the frying pan and fry over medium heat until lightly colored, stirring often. 

Sauteed matchstick carrots in a pan 
Add raisins and continue to fry, stirring until raisins become plump. Sprinkle carrot and raisin mixture with sugar and set aside. 

Cooked carrots and raisins in a pan 

Step 4: Cook the Rice
Wash and strain the rice. Bring 6 cups (1.5 litres, 51 oz) of water to a boil with 1 tbsp salt. Add rice, return to a boil, and boil for 6 minutes. Strain. 

Step 5: Steam and Combine
Remove the cooked lamb and ½ cup (4 fl oz. or 125 ml) of liquid. Stir the rice and the remaining 1 tsp salt into the juices still remaining in the pan. 

Large frying pan with lamb on the bottom and a mound of basmati rice on top 
Make 3 or 4 holes in the rice with the end of a wooden spoon. Place lamb mixture over half of rice and carrots/raisin mixture over the other half of rice. Pour reserved meat juices over the top. 

Large pan with cooked rice on the bottom and lamb meat, carrots, and raisins on top 

Place two paper towels over the pan and cover tightly with a lid. Cook over medium heat for 5 minutes, then reduce the heat to low and cook for 25 minutes more. Remove from heat and keep covered for 5 minutes. 

Step 6: Serve and Enjoy
Close up of Kabuli Pulao with toasted almonds 
Pile the lamb into the center of a platter and top with carrots and raisin mixture. Fluff up rice grains with a fork and mound the rice around the meat in the middle. Sprinkle with reserved almonds and serve