Korma Palou
Navratan Korma

Cut all the vegetables into evenly sized pieces and set aside on a tray.

Heat the oil in a deep pan over a medium–high heat. Add the cassia bark, cardamoms, clove and bay leaf, then immediately add the onions and fry until golden brown.

Add the garlic and ginger and stir for 1 minute. Then add the ground coriander, chilli powder, sugar and salt and stir for 2 minutes.

Add the yoghurt, lower the heat to medium and stir until most of the liquid has evaporated. Add all the vegetables, stir and cook until tender. If the vegetables start to stick, add a splash of water. When they are cooked, add the coconut milk and ground almonds, and stir until the gravy thickens.

Taste and adjust the seasoning before serving. This korma goes very well with any kind of rice or pulao, and is a great accompaniment for meat or fish.

Sada Pulao

Wash the rice in a sieve under cold running water until the water runs clear, then place in a bowl of cold water to soak for at least 2 hours or for as long as possible – I always see a difference in the length of the grains after soaking. The grains will cook more quickly and are less likely to stick, as they absorb water while soaking.

Heat the oil or ghee in a heavy-based pan over a medium–high heat. When the oil is hot, add the cardamoms, cassia bark, cloves and bay leaf. After a few seconds, when the spices begin to sizzle and pop, use a slotted spoon to remove them to a plate, leaving as much of the oil in the pan as possible.

Add the cashew nuts to the pan and stir until they are lightly browned; remove with a slotted spoon and place on a plate.

Turn the heat to low, add the raisins/cranberries and cook for a few seconds – the moment they start to swell up, remove with a slotted spoon.

Add the onion to the pan and fry for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, until golden brown and caramelised. Remove to a plate to drain. Spread the onion across the plate so it crisps as it cools.

Drain the rice and briefly spread on kitchen paper to remove excess liquid – do not squeeze the grains, or they will break.

Put the kettle on to boil. Add the rice to the pan, then add the fried whole spices and half the caramelised onion. Stir for 1 minute to coat the rice in the spiced oil, add the salt and 600ml boiling water to cover the rice. Cook, uncovered, over a medium–high heat for about 4 minutes until the rice has absorbed most of the water. Reduce the heat, cover and simmer for a further 5 minutes until the rice is cooked.

Add the nuts and fruit and gently mix with a fork. Cover and leave for 5 minutes before serving. Garnish with the remaining onion.

Ingredients
1kg mixed vegetables
6 tbsp vegetable oil
2.5-cm piece of cassia bark
2 green cardamom pods
1 clove
1 large bay leaf
2 large onions, cut in half and thinly sliced
3–4 garlic cloves, crushed
6-cm piece of fresh ginger, grated
2 tsp ground coriander
1 tsp chilli powder
1/2 tsp sugar
2 tsp salt
250g full-fat Greek-style yoghurt
400ml thick coconut milk
2 tbsp ground almonds